---
layout: post
title: Cooking and Data Science
excerpt: What do cooking and data science have in common? Lots, probably!
permalink: /portfolio/food-and-data-science/
---
## Cooking
I love to cook. As a millenial (former) academic, cooking has been a great hobby to cultivate because:
- I have to eat, so I might as well enjoy it.
- Cooking saves money over eating out, something always important for grad students.
- Making things is uniquely satisfying, and cooking is more practical for an apartment dweller than, say, woodworking.
- Cooking can lead to fun new toys, skills, and the praise of others if you spend enough time on it.

## Knife skills
It's pretty well known that being able to use a knife well can really improve cooking. Imagine a vegetable stew made with good ingredients, good cooking techniques, but with the vegetables cut haphazardly. You might have big lumps of undercooked potatoes, overcooked mushy shreds of carrots, and unpleasantly chunky pieces of garlic. It's really hard to get a good dish out of these pieces, even if you know what you're doing at every other phase. You *could* buy those pre-cut vegetables from the store, but that's more expensive and gives you fewer choices. You could also buy some kind of gadget that cuts vegetables for you, but those sometimes don't live up to their promises and might end up wasting stuff. It's much better to practice and develop the skills to take the raw, ugly ingredients and turn them into usable, ready-to-cook pieces.

## Data science
Let's recast that example as a metaphor for the data science process. Maybe you love modeling, and if you find a clean csv file you can turn it into great stuff (like buying pre-cut vegetables at the grocery store). Maybe you rely on some brutal processing steps that toss out useful data (it slices! it dices!). Your results in these cases won't be as good as if you really spend time with a knife (figuratively) trimming the data yourself. Maybe cleaning data isn't super fun right away, but just like knife skills, if you take the time to build a solid foundation, you'll be able to make the most of every scrap that comes your way.
